---
title: "When Rome Rioted for More Nepotism – Ada Palmer - 原始文稿"
channel: "Dwarkesh Patel"
published: "2026-06-22"
source_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ATScXYYjUrA"
video_id: "ATScXYYjUrA"
variant: "transcript"
---

# When Rome Rioted for More Nepotism – Ada Palmer - 原始文稿

- **Channel:** Dwarkesh Patel
- **Published:** 2026-06-22
- **Source:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ATScXYYjUrA
- **Main:** [When Rome Rioted for More Nepotism – Ada Palmer](2026-06-22-when-rome-rioted-for-more-nepotism-–-ada-palmer-ATScXYYjUrA.md)

One big way in which our world is different from 500 years ago is this the focus on patronage and that being the basis of political power. It was much more prominent, right? So that is something I think would be interesting to understand. >> Well, it's it's not that it was just more prominent, but it was the fundamental glue of the society as opposed to one of several glues of the society. And you know, patronage which was also familial and therefore entangled with nepotism uh was so fundamental that you know, for example, when Alessandro Farnese was elected Pope Paul III in the middle of the 1500s he didn't corruptly make one of his kinsmen commander of the papal armies. He instead appointed a really competent, experienced general instead of his own not very competent illegitimate son. And there were riots in Rome. Your Holiness the people demand more nepotism. You must appoint your illegitimate son to command your armies because your illegitimate son will never betray you. And we will know we can trust the papal armies not to turn on Rome if the Pope's son is the commander. And we don't know that about this other commander. He might turn against Your Holiness and there might be a rift between the Pope and the papal armies if he's not somebody that rises and falls with you the way your son does. Therefore, by popular demand the people want more nepotism because the system depends on it. Right. And that's how you see how the system depends on there are levels of trust that the patronage system creates because it involves multi-generational entanglement of families where if these families rise, they rise together. If they fall, they fall together which creates levels of trust that can sustain things like this world where the oath of a soldier is to his commander, not to the polity that he serves. And in modernity we realize another solution to that is the oath of the soldier is not to the commander, the oath of the soldier is to the constitution or to the country or to the people. But in this period, the oath of the soldier is to the commander, mostly because communications are so slow that the commander has to be able to give speedy field commands. But it means you're creating an army and you're handing it to a man. And if you cannot trust that man, then the people will be terrified that there could be a rift between Rome and its own armies or between Rome and its treasurer or between Rome and its other allies. Patronage is the glue that makes things work all the way down. >> Mhm. >> All the way down to the level of if you need a defense attorney, that's done through patronage. The outcomes of trials are really great way to see patronage. So, we're all familiar with the fact that law codes in the Middle Ages are really cruel, right? And it's like death for everything. Death for theft, death for adultery, death for homosexuality, death for setting fire to the prince's beehive, whatever it is, you know, that's the sentence on the books. And then you look at the actual trial records, and maybe one in a hundred convictions for that crime actually ends in a capital sentence. And almost all of the other ones end in a fine or a public flogging, but not in the sentence that's on the books. And we say, "Why and how is that happening?" Patronage is the answer. So, if it's the Middle Ages or the Renaissance, and you're a carpenter, and your teenage son gets drunk and he punches somebody in a brawl and breaks the guy's nose in that way that makes him die. An accidentally kills the guy in a drunken brawl, and your son is now on trial for murder. You're a carpenter. You therefore have worked for the rich family whose family carpenter you are, right? Let's say it's the Medici family. Whenever they need new pews for the family church or new furniture or repairs for the family gates, they go to you. So, you go to them and you say, "My son is in danger. He's on trial. Please put in a good word." And your patron has the ability to then influence the judges. And they will put in a good word for you and then you will get a lighter sentence. This is a sort of an ancestor of what having a character witness is. To say but so-and-so is such a good person, they should have the milder punishment, not the more severe one. But the norm is you're accused of a severe crime, you're put on trial for your life. Your patron intervenes and you get a lighter sentence. And this is how justice is supposed to work. And this is a very severe line that changes in the 18th century with the Enlightenment. Because we now think of proportional justice. The sentence for the crime should be this. And ideal justice is everyone who is guilty of the crime gets that sentence. That is fair. It doesn't matter whether you're rich or poor, the sentence should be the same. This is the ideal of Enlightenment justice. The ideal of this period's justice, which is much more shaped by Christianity, is the purpose of the trial is the spiritual interior correction of the soul of the sinner. And therefore the ideal outcome is for them to fear for their life. They're before a terrifying judge who is the earthly representation of God. And they're before him, they know that they're guilty and they deserve to be thrown into the the pits of hell. But miraculously, they are given grace and they are pardoned. And the process of being put on trial, fearing for your life, begging to the patron, and then receiving mercy is supposed to sort of be an earthly preview of the process your soul will undergo when you are before divine judgment. Uh and therefore should make you come out the other end a good person. And the goal of the justice system is the spiritual improvement of the sinner in the hope that they will come out the other end better and more likely to go to heaven. Even when the people are being sentenced to death, uh there are religious organizations who sit with them overnight having a final prayer group and walk with them to the gallows holding their hand. Uh and and holding a painting of the Virgin Mary in front of their face so that to the very last moment the person who's about to be executed is thinking about heaven. Uh and the ideal outcome of the execution is that the soul goes to heaven. So, the whole structure of the justice system expects the intervention of a patron who represents the intervention of a patron saint uh persuading the judge who is God to give you mercy. So, when we see a hundred trials end in 99, the person pay paid a small fine and one, the person was executed. What that actually means is 99, their patron stepped in. And somebody persuaded somebody who put in a good word who got the light sentence. And one, that person had fallen out of the patronage network. That person had angered their boss, their protector. That's why it went all the way to being a capital offense. Probably a lot of people listening uh are familiar with Giordano Bruno, very famous as a martyr for science because he was burnt at the stake by the Inquisition. Uh fewer people know that that was not his first Inquisition trial. He was investigated a number of times by the Inquisition uh for doing various uh radical uh forms of thought. The earlier trials had the usual outcome for that kind of trial of he had a patron, there were rich people that he worked with or for, the university was hosting him. They put in a good word. He's fine. Uh the Inquisition tells him be good, uh and things continue as they are." That time, he had angered the person he worked for. He pissed off his patron. And it's his patron who turns him into the Inquisition. And says, "This guy is a charlatan. He promised he could teach me these things that he can't. I don't trust him. He's no good. Throw the book at him." And the reason that trial goes all the way to a capital sentence is that he doesn't have a patron. He's the 99th case that time. >> Mhm. >> And if he had had a patron protecting him, despite how radical his stuff was, he would have been okay. And we see that in the trial of Giovanni Pico della Mirandola, who was candidly substantially more radical than Giordano Bruno. Uh but when Pico is on trial, Lorenzo de Medici and other powerful people really care about Pico, and they pull it out all the stops, and you know, Lorenzo talks to his brother-in-law who's an Orsini. The Orsini have enormous influence in Rome. They get permission for Pico to be let go and sent home to Lorenzo to sort of live under house arrest under Lorenzo's promise that he'll be good from then on. Or uh Marsilio Ficino, right, who is this radical Platonist who publishes a book on how to project your soul outside of time and summon angels and arguing you for the existence of reincarnation and and is very clearly being extremely theologically weird. This is the man who wrote the best letter of recommendation ever written in the history of time, when he was recommending a young scholar for a job with the King of Hungary. Uh and he writes in the recommendation letter, "This young man is the reincarnation of Saint Thomas Aquinas. So, you should give him a job." Now, that is a letter of recommendation. But you're like, "The reincarnation of Saint Thomas Aquinas, huh?" And the Inquisition comes knocking on Ficino's door and is like, "Mhm, uh reincarnation?" And Ficino is like, "Oh, no. Uh help. Talk to Lorenzo." Lorenzo talks to his brother, Cardinal Orsini. Cardinal Orsini shuts it down. And Ficino is told Mhm. maybe lay off talking quite so overtly about the about the reincarnation and Ficino says, "Yes, of course, and I will only teach very pious people how to summon angels and project their souls out of their bodies. I promise I won't teach it to anybody who will use these powers irresponsibly." The Inquisition is like, "Okay." And goes home. Because patronage kicked in. And patronage is the glue that makes everything work. Cuz you can't even stay in a hotel or buy an apple. I'm not kidding. Without a patron. Um because you you know, you arrive at a city, nobody knows you, you're a stranger. What you have is a letter of recommendation from your patron who's friends with some important person there. You present that at the hotel. That's why they let you stay. >> If you enjoyed this clip, you can watch the full episode here and subscribe for more clips. Thanks.
