---
title: "How On Policy Self Distillation Works - Sasha Rush - 原始文稿"
channel: "Dwarkesh Patel"
published: "2026-06-23"
source_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wxOZWD6wYVY"
video_id: "wxOZWD6wYVY"
variant: "transcript"
---

# How On Policy Self Distillation Works - Sasha Rush - 原始文稿

- **Channel:** Dwarkesh Patel
- **Published:** 2026-06-23
- **Source:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wxOZWD6wYVY
- **Main:** [How On Policy Self Distillation Works - Sasha Rush](2026-06-23-how-on-policy-self-distillation-works-sasha-rush-wxOZWD6wYVY.md)

Okay, great. So, yeah, let's talk about distillation. So, um people used to do this method called seek sequence knowledge distillation for training these models. And the way it would work is that you'd have the teacher which would produce a sequence of outputs like this. And this would be like a smart model that you knew would do very well on a task. And you wanted to have a smaller model which we'll call a student basically learn to do nearly as well as what the teacher was doing. Um and the way it would work is you would just target the student basically just with standard like cross entropy to try to match what the teacher was doing. Um and this was kind of common for doing things like machine translation and kind of early forms of training language models to do well on these tasks. Um a couple years ago another method came out that has become quite popular called on policy distillation or OPD. And on policy distillation has a nice benefit that it can be used during RL and plays really nicely with some of the RL techniques that people use. Um and the way it's going to work is that instead of producing the output from the teacher, you're going to instead have the student produce the output. So, we'll have the student here. It's going to produce a sequence. Now, the sequence might be a series of tool calls saying I how you might say solve a coding problem. Now, this is going to be kind of not that great. But you're going to then have the teacher pre-score each of the tokens in those sequences. So, now we have basically the teacher running a forward pass over that data. For each position it's going to maybe make kind of different choices about what tokens it would like to have there. You have two sets of log props, the ones from the student and the ones from the teacher. You're now going to take a KL loss between these two and you're going to update the student to be more like what the teacher was producing. >> Can I ask um a concept a very basic question? You you could sort of think of one way of doing this as you just match whatever you just read the teacher's output as a supervised learning target. >> Yeah. >> Why do we train it such that the student is trying to match the teacher? >> Yeah. Um so in in in this way, you basically would have the teacher and its full sequence outputs as a supervised learning target. In this setting, the kind of the scope or trajectory of the outputs are going to follow basically what the teacher was doing. >> Yeah. >> In this setting here, um the trajectory is basically following what the student was doing. >> I see. >> So like the intuitive analogy is like this is like you're watching like Rafael Nadal play tennis. >> Yeah. >> And he's like so good. >> Right. >> He's doing amazing things and you're the student over here. >> Yeah. >> trying to kind of copy that, right? The analogy here is that this is like Sasha playing tennis. And you have like Rafael Nadal over the shoulder and correcting all the mistakes that you're doing. >> I see. >> And each of these is like the kind of like smart teacher correcting the like motion and trajectory of what you're trying to do in that setting. >> It seemed like you were hinting in your blog post on Composer 2.5. >> Yeah. >> That this is helping you guys solve the credit assignment problem. >> Yeah. >> Can you explain how that's happening? >> Sure. So um before we get there, let's make one more detour, which is to note that on policy distillation works very nicely when you're doing RL as well. So when you're doing RL, think about this is basically the model that you're learning. Um it's going to basically be doing a roll out anyway and producing its output. So, we're basically already going to have to do a kind of forward and a backward step on the um following the RL of the student model. So, we have some loss, which is the basically the RL loss for this this setting. Yeah. And since you have that already, you can maybe think about how you might move the teacher and have a kind of second part of the loss, which we'll call the um off-policy distillation loss, um which is basically computed by taking this part which you have already, the log prop from the student, comparing them to what a teacher would have done, and getting this update. If you have that update, you can kind of add it in and get extra benefit. >> Interesting. Interesting. >> Um cool. Now, in the case of composer, we actually don't have a teacher model. We don't have like another model that's better than the model we have. Um so, we're going to use this method that's become popular recently called off-policy self-distillation. Um and the idea here is basically we're going to synthesize a teacher to try to help us out. So, we don't have a better model, but we can pretend we have a better model by taking a student um [snorts] loss and feed it And the fed feedback is going to be this kind of extra information that we inject into this trajectory. So, this is extra information will go here that tells you what you'd like the model to do. And you can compute the log probs for the student and then the log probs for the student plus the text feedback. And there'll actually be differences at this message. So, this and this will not have exactly the same log probs right because you've conditioned on actual information. >> I guess there's um the there's still a remaining problem here which is that you need to need to keep re-running this trajectory because initially the student following its own policy will notice this mistake but will still have completed just gotten stuck in a loop. And it will like keep making the same mistake and it needs to like you're need to keep re-doing this until it fix that mistake and then actually learn the correct >> Um Yeah, right. So, the question is if the text feedback is not strong enough or or or maybe ill-targeted >> Or or something like suppose there there's another error like here. But if you're on policy for the student, the student would already gotten stuck here. >> Yeah, that's right. Yes. >> And um the student would already gotten stuck here and then it wouldn't have like it would never encountered this uh additional improvement whereas in um in the sequence knowledge distillation world, it would have encountered all of the teachers like you would have seen the doll perform the other move better as well even if you up the first serve. >> Yeah, right. The we're only going to get like slightly better a little bit at a time. I think in theory if you're following the whole output, maybe you can do some amazing thing. >> Okay, and then here what we're saying is we don't want to like learn what to do once you've already made a Nadal type serve because I'm not not making the Nadal type serve yet and then how do I return the return? I want to like learn what do I do next? And so, I'm just going to unroll the trajectory as I would and then I'm going to compare if Nadal found himself in a position where I'd like done a terrible volley, what would he do next? >> Yeah, yeah, right. So, so right, you this is like you start from something really good, this is something you start from something really bad and kind of the way. >> Yeah. Okay. So, um Now now on to what you guys actually did to train composer 2.5. How do you how do you figure out what the right text feedback is? Is it done in an automated way? Do you guys Is there Are there people who label it? How does that happen? >> Yeah. [clears throat] So, um basically the way this works is that uh during the RL process, we have composer and allow it to basically read the trajectory. Uh we've written uh some manual prompts that look for specific mistakes in the styling or the errors of the process itself. And they will suggest certain times when text feedback is useful and they'll point to a specific message where they want to inject it. Um and the reason this is necessary is because when we do RL, we don't just have kind of three turns, we might have hundreds of them. And so RL itself has trouble kind of locating where these errors are. But we can use models to kind of tell us where there's a problem and then use text feedback to kind of target that problem and correct it directly. >> Um Okay, so how well does it work? >> Uh it works pretty well. I mean, you can um basically see these curves where uh when you have a specific error >> Yeah. >> kind of put this in and then kind of much quicker than the full RL process, these things will will go away. >> Right. >> Um it's not at the point yet where it kind of replaces aspects of RL. So, we're still kind of doing this in conjunction with the actual system itself. >> Got it. Um yeah, it Mhm. I guess you need to be able to identify what the like if it's a sort of easily identifiable issue versus something more more subtle. >> That's true. >> Yeah. >> We focused on these ones as kind of a starting point. Um but um yeah, there's a lot of interest in kind of building the scope of these. I think text is a very good way of communicating information >> Yeah. >> and is a great way of storing information between companies and people. It is a frustrating aspect of modern RL that even though we can read trajectories and they're bad and even other models can read them in their >> Yeah, interesting. >> we can't inject that information directly. >> Yeah, yeah. >> Yeah. >> Interesting. For you to be able to execute this protocol, the student produces an output trajectory, >> Mhm. >> then a reader, another model, looks at that trajectory and says, "Here's the error you made." >> Yeah. >> Then based on that new the reader's analysis, a new prompt is made, and then you re-execute another trajectory. >> Mhm. >> And unless you've kept the log probs of the previous model, then at the very least you have to run another forward pass on this new model. Anyways, it just seems like there's a multi-step process here where the trajectory has to be regenerated and then an evaluator model has to be called. Can this all be done in the on policy basically where if you had to keep your reader >> Mhm. >> Yeah, can can this be done concurrent with the trainer loop? >> Yeah, so it's it's it's it's slightly simpler than that. So, we've generated this output. It's just a sequence of tokens. We're going to send this sequence of tokens to this model that's going to read it. >> Yeah. >> Um and then it's going to isolate a specific say time that it says is problematic. >> Yeah. >> Then we're just going to do text manipulation. We're just going to take that trajectory and we're literally just going to like smash in some extra tokens. We're not going to have to do any inference. We're just going to take this new trajectory with this extra information. We're going to run a forward pass on that. That's going to give us the log probs. We're going to detach from our our graph, and then we're just going to back prop it along with RL. >> I may be misunderstanding something, but it seems like you have to do at least two different consecutive rollouts in order to run the on policy self-distillation strategy where you have to do the student roll out and then you have to do then the evaluator looks at it, figures out what the issue was, writes a new prompt, then based on the new prompt you do the new roll out with a better prompt and then you compare the two. And then but it sounds like you're saying there's one roll out. I must be misunderstanding. >> So it's it's actually it's actually a little simpler than that. So there's just one roll out. This is the roll out. And these tokens here and here are exactly the same tokens. And in fact, even here and here these are exactly the same tokens as well. We're not generating anything new. Basically, what we're doing is we're re-scoring the log probability for these tokens under a slightly modified context. So we're basically just taking the text of this roll out. We're then inserting some new text here and we're re-computing how those log probs would have changed under that that new text. So just kind of going back to the tennis analogy, this is like my bad swing and then this is kind of like Rafael Nadal like over my shoulder kind of correcting each of the little mistakes I was making. Yeah. >> Yeah. And so it's not like you need to watch Rafael play a game and then you try to match the game. >> Yeah. >> It's just like this is this is still your game. You're not doing a new roll out. You're just um uh And so you don't have to do decode basically. >> have to do decode. You're just slightly modifying little parts of what you did. Right, yeah. Um yeah, but as you noted earlier, the the downside of this is that I'm not going to make amazing, incredible progress. Like by the time I get to the end, I'm still doing the dumb things I did before and I'm just getting kind of little local corrections on on what was going on. >> Yeah. Interesting. Thanks for explaining it. >> Awesome. Yeah, thanks.
