---
title: "How the most AI-pilled product team builds products | Fiona Fung (Claude Code and Cowork) - 原始文稿"
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
published: "2026-06-21"
source_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ybrl4FYM57c"
video_id: "Ybrl4FYM57c"
variant: "transcript"
---

# How the most AI-pilled product team builds products | Fiona Fung (Claude Code and Cowork) - 原始文稿

- **Channel:** Lenny's Podcast
- **Published:** 2026-06-21
- **Source:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ybrl4FYM57c
- **Main:** [How the most AI-pilled product team builds products | Fiona Fung (Claude Code and Cowork)](2026-06-21-how-the-most-ai-pilled-product-team-builds-products-fiona-fung-(claude-code-and-cowork)-Ybrl4FYM57c.md)

Anthropic engineers on average have eight times as much code per quarter as they did compared to 2025. Coding is no longer the bottleneck. It's lifted the ceiling of what anyone is able to do. Everything is now possible in theory. Now it's about how ambitious can you be? It's always something we ask ourselves. What's better than me doing it, having thought of it. The people that seem to be doing best are taking the most initiative, getting the most proactive, have the most agency. We say with high agencies also high accountability. So it's all about making sure folks have that freedom to cook. But then it's also like, okay, what's the accountability for it? What's the hypothesis of what you're trying to solve? I'm curious what is lost in this new world of software engineering. It could start being a lonely experience because we all started just working with our agents so much. On the Claude Code team recently, we started up pair-wise programming lunch. Something you think about is this gap forming between people that are leaning into AI, killing it, and then people that are not. Super frustrated, fighting, resisting. In terms of frustration, I think sometimes I also see a little bit of fear. For anything that there is a fear, my advice is lean in and ask, what can I do about it? What is within my control? Today, my guest is Fiona Fung. Fiona leads the teams behind Claude Code and Co-work at Anthropic. She oversees both Boris Cherny and Cat Woo, both of whom who have been on the podcast and whose episodes are in the top 10 most listened to episodes of all time. Before Anthropic, at Microsoft, Fiona ran the teams that built TypeScript and Visual Studio. After that, she went to Facebook where she started the Facebook Marketplace team, which she took from idea to launch. Today, Facebook Marketplace generates over $100 billion in GMV every year. Also, while at Meta, she oversaw work on Meta's first smart glasses product, and then she helped build Orion, their first AR glasses product. Then she went to Instagram, where she led infrastructure, growth, integrity, and safety teams. While at Instagram and at Meta, she oversaw an org of over 500 people. Fiona has been an engineer for over 25 years, and as a long-time engineering leader, especially now at Anthropic, she has such a unique lens into where things are heading, what's worth paying attention to, and what teams should be thinking about right now as AI transforms the world of building. A huge thank you to Cat Woo, Boris Cherny, and Mohammed Hegazi for suggesting topics and questions for this conversation. Before we get into it, don't forget to check out lenny'sproductpass.com for a free year of the hottest and most well-crafted AI products in the world, available exclusively to Lenny's newsletter subscribers. With that, I bring you Fiona Fung. Fiona, thank you so much for being here. Welcome to the podcast. Thanks so much for having me, Lenny. So I was at the uh Claude uh code with Claude event uh, I don't know, a month ago at this point, and I was and I went to your talk. And I I was just like, holy shit, I gotta get Fiona on this podcast. She's thinking so far ahead of where everybody else is going and what where people are at with AI. So you've been an engineer for 25 years. I was browsing your LinkedIn. Uh, you started at IBM of all places. It's such a different place to be these days. And it's just insane how much the job of an engineer has changed over the past just like two years. It's like a completely different job. Like, people may forget 100% of code was written by humans, not long ago. And now it's getting to 100% of code written by AI. Uh as Boris uh famously said, code coding is solved. Along these lines, there's just this tweet that you guys put out yesterday where you showed, uh here's the tweet, Anthropic engineers on average have eight times as much code per quarter as they did compared to 201 to 2025. We'll show this chart on the screen. It's just like stable, stable, stable, stable, shooting off into the moon. So it's just insane how much this role has changed. I'm curious about your kind of path as an engineer going living through this, having been an engineer for a long time. What have been kind of like the big moments along the way where it's shifted your way of thinking and operating that have led you to what you do now and how you operate now? Oh, I I I love this kind of like walk back in time. Yeah, like IBM working on DB2, the operating system services team. Like back then I was thinking, oh, how can I how can I be like the uh, like what's a hard area of the stack? And I really thought the lower level you go, closer to the OS then it's like more hardcore and you you'll learn more. So that was a I was really fortunate to gotten into the IBM internship. Um, but the funny thing was, I would I think there's even a big shift from IBM to Microsoft. So at IBM it was, I think, Vim. Like, I didn't have an IDE that we used. I think there might have been an Eclipse, but for some reasons, most of us didn't use it. So I remembered it was mainly like Vim and and uh, you know, like kind of terminal debugging. And then when I joined Microsoft, I mean, this is how naive I was. I didn't even know about IDEs and such and and back then you didn't really get to pick teams. Like this was early 2000s. Actually, first off, I should say I was so grateful that I landed the internship and the role because to take us all the way back in time, the dot-com bubble burst in 2000. And so for my graduating class, like a lot of the companies weren't hiring and we're having freezes. So I was so fortunate when Microsoft sent me an offer. And so they're like, you're going to work on Visual Studio. I did not even know what Visual Studio was, cuz I came from like a Unix school. So I remembered asking, oh, because I was thinking, oh, the name Visual Studio. I'm like, oh, is this like a a better Paint program? And I could tell the look of my manager's face like, what is going on? But then it ended up becoming like the love of my life for the first, you know, 11 years of of my career. But that was the first time I used an IDE. So joining the Visual Studio team, seeing, oh, wow, like here's an IDE with like debuggers and you can set break points and do multi-threaded debugging. Like that was also always mind-blowing for me to think about the the step-wise change. Um, so yeah, like that was kind of uh, the story going from IBM to Visual Studio. And then what I really loved actually about Visual Studio is uh, I was on the Visual Studio Editor team. So I used a VS editor to build the VS editor. And that's where my whole love of dog-fooding comes from. Like, I I remembered, I wanted to first and foremost, create a delightful experience not only for myself, but for my teammates. Cuz also if we go back in that time, if you remember, I mean, when did Twitter come out? Like was it two 2006 or something? Feels like it's been around my whole life. But back then, like before social media, it was also harder for most engineers to um, hear fast customer feedback. Like, for sure, there you would be user research sessions, or we would have customers visit us, um, but you didn't get the rapid feedback that you you you you do nowadays. But back then, I was so lucky because I was on VS. We ourselves gave each other so much rapid feedback cuz we were all heavy VS users on the team. This episode is brought to you by our season's presenting sponsor WorkOS. What do OpenAI, Anthropic, Cursor, Vercel, Replit, Sierra, Clay, and hundreds of other winning companies all have in common? They are all powered by WorkOS. If you're building a product for the enterprise, you've felt the pain of integrating single sign-on, SCIM, RBACK, audit logs, and other features required by large companies. WorkOS turns those deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a modern developer platform built specifically for B2B SaaS. Literally every startup that I'm an investor in that starts to expand up-market ends up working with WorkOS. And that's because they are the best. Whether you are a seed-stage startup trying to land your first enterprise customer or a unicorn expanding globally, WorkOS is the fastest path to becoming enterprise-ready and unblocking growth. It's essentially Stripe for enterprise features. Visit workos.com to get started or just hit up their Slack where they have actual engineers waiting to answer your questions. WorkOS allows you to build faster with delightful APIs, comprehensive docs, and a smooth developer experience. Go to workos.com to make your app enterprise-ready today. People think about these milestones along the way of an engineer's journey, and we forget that it's also there's been like a lot of transformation over the years, not quite what we're living through, but just like IDEs, Visual Studio. Uh so I love that you I love that you're reminding us of these moments in uh the history of software engineering that that have changed the the the work in a big way. Yeah, when I worked on Visual Studio, back then we also shipped software on CDs. I mean, before like and and and that's why there were really hard deadlines, cuz you had to make sure the software was ready for us to give to manufacturing, to then, you know, put on the CDs for us to then put on the shelves. And uh, and then so once that was another shift, when we actually started to be able to, you know, ship software online. And I think that's the interesting thing and I kind of mentioned this in my talk. It's before when you like engineering time was like like really precious resource. But you also have these really hard deadlines, for example, like printing software on CDs and so back then you would do a lot more planning cuz you just wanted to make sure given the time you have, you you make the best of it. And that's a shift that, you know, like we're seeing with with uh Claude Code and co-work is coding is no longer the bottleneck. And so now like, you know, you showed up uh you showed the the tweet and that graphic. So, but now it's all about like where has that shift happened? Like now, not only engineers, but we also have designers, PMs, everybody on the Claude Code team checks in code. So like when not only more people checking in code, but like kind of different disciplines, but also the throughput is so high. How do we think about verification? Like that's kind of this other shift that I'm seeing. Maybe just kind of set this theme that I wanna have for this conversation. A lot of people are just wondering what is what does software engineering, managing software engineers, managing software and product teams look like in the future, and you are living through that right now. So you mentioned this um point about a more focus on verification, making sure the quality of the code being uh 8X is actually high and something that that, you know, will work. So just like, let me ask this broad question and let's kind of see where this conversation goes. What does a what does an AI pilled soft-ware team look like in 2026? Because the roles are blowing, it's shifting more to this builder, uh like everybody starts being a a builder, I would say. The other shift that I've recently done is I actually have a Claude Code remote session that I enlist in all of our repos. And so this way I have full visibility into the work that everybody's doing. And this instance, it also has access to all our Slack channels and and I'll I'll have access to like how how are the metrics of of everything we track. And so every every month, like I when when like I'll be like, hey, you know what's fun? Like, let's let's take a look back like and so we'll actually do it together. I'll share my, you know, like Claude Code, uh, you know, I'll share my screen and we we we do a Claude Code session. And it's just about, hey, what were the focus areas? Like what were some of the the products that got shipped? How did it do? Oh, what were the feedback channels? And and so I even though like before I would have just used these sessions to like generate PRs and bug fixes, I actually have these sessions uh to enable me to have conversations with folks that I support. Say more about that. So this is this is uh like a management technique, let's say, to help people uh not just ship, but actually ship better, understand if they're shipping things that have impact. Is that kind of the idea here? Just like use Claude to keep on top of all the things people are shipping and then make that a conversation with them. Exactly. So, like, yeah, outside of just, you know, the action of shipping is, how did it do in market? Or, hey, did we have, you know, like, did we cause some bugs? And it's okay to have, like, I have this saying, make new mistakes. Like, it's okay to make mistakes. Just make new ones so that we're always learning, cuz if you aim to make zero mistakes, that probably means you're not, you know, moving fast enough or being a little bit too cautious. And so, yeah, by by having Claude, like, so then it can also look at, like, something, like, for example, actually, yeah, we were just I was just looking at, oh, you know, given some of the, you know, incidents that we have, like, let's look across all of them. Can we generate a theme? Like, what's a good area investment for us not especially if we think about like quality, like are we seeing any hot spots of where there could be a gap? I think that used to be just a much more manual process, I would say. Like if I look back a year ago, I don't think I would have been able to, you know, have some of these insights with Claude. Yeah, well, partly is cuz like, there's that and also people weren't shipping as much. So you could just make a little bullet list. Here's the things I shipped last quarter, this feature, that feature, this feature, that feature. That's right. So I think what I'm hearing here is this is like one of the only ways to stay on top of all the things your team is shipping. So this is a really cool thread of just like how you found ways to stay on top of this 8x increase in code. What else has worked in helping you and your team stay on top of and maintain quality of all the stuff that you all are shipping, because that's obviously a challenge, a bigger challenge. Yeah. And so definitely like the feedback channels are really important to us, but then we also get a lot of feedback and like, for example, even I myself usually what my my morning ritual would be, you know, I get my morning cup of coffee and then I look at the feedback channels and then I try to pick out what are, you know, if I have some maker time, what's something that maybe I would be able to help out or what I could like see some gaps? Like that it just used to be something I would do every morning. And uh, yeah, I think maybe a month or two ago, we we launched routines. And that's also completely changed. Like now I just have a routine that automates all this for me. And then there's also it's almost like before I would, you know, be able to kind of like, you know, generate some prompts, but now with routines, it's almost like I'm, you know, having an agent help me generate like generate the prompts and the PRs. So for example, one is, hey, keep a look on this feedback channel, you know, what are some of the themes? And then like when I wake up, then, you know, I have a really good summary of that and then even some like PRs that I'll be able to to take a look and review. And the feedback channel, where's that feedback coming from? Is that like like emails, Twitters, or is that a combo of everything? Ah, our feedback channels are definitely like we have a lot from internal and, but also like emails, channels. Actually, everybody, uh, like when we all get feedback on even like one friend's paying us or on LinkedIn or socials, we'll all actually like post all that in Slack as well. And so, and and we also have like, of course, partnerships, and so we have different channels uh for for all the various sources. But but that's what I mean of I need Claude's help to help me stay on top because there is so much incoming feedback. Got it. Okay, so this is cool. So this is a uh like a way of working that you've built to stay on top of all the stuff shipping, which is this kind of daily ritual/routine where you as a manager, look at what people are saying about the current state of uh Claude Code and Co-work, and used to just like, okay, someone go fix this, go fix that. Now it's like, here's the PR that'll fix this thing, check it out. We're ready to ship it if you want. That's right. Okay, like obviously a big challenge for people is also just code review. I imagine Claude is also doing a lot of its own code reviews. Is there anything there you've recently figured out that allows your teams to ship faster stuff that they are confident is great. Yeah, and honestly, it's crazy when, you know, I think we didn't even have Claude code reviews last year. And so speaking of bottlenecks, that that was a really, really big bottleneck of, you know, the human reviewers. So we definitely for the important like like areas that need deep subject matter expertise, we definitely want to make sure we have the proper, uh, you know, like humans still reviewing. I would say what helps us though is the more that we can automate to almost uh check in the framework for what good looks like, Claude is very good when you give it a framework to validate against those frameworks. So I had mentioned like, you know, our like, you know, like recently we just updated like content design to to have a style guide. Like my like I and this is why like um, I think if you have specs or like or like like check those into the repo and then make sure the spec also keeps up to date with the code, like frequently. But that's what I found like works really well of any time you have like a statement of what good looks like, get that into the repo and then Claude Code review can make sure it's still matching what you set up to do. Basically, it's like the evolution of test-driven development. Yes. For TDD, it's cuz I remember that was like a a big thing, my gosh, maybe like in the 2000s of, write the test first. And then and then you can like make sure the test fails, then you do actually the code. In principle, it's really good, but I think, I know, I remembered I myself struggling a bit because it was almost like you have to eat the broccoli first. It's like, ah, you have to write this test first. And I just get so much thrill out of shipping and building product. So it's funny. Actually, the first bug I fixed on Claude Code, I remember asking Claude, hey, I want to do test-driven development. Help me write the test first. Make sure it fails, and then we'll actually, you know, do the fix and then and then now the test pass. And the fact that that used to be, you know, like that test generation used to just be this task that I remember having to pay. Like the fact that that's now automated, and you can even revisit all these principles that have been around for a while, but now they actually might be even more efficient just because you have the models that can do more of the work for you. Yeah, like that's that's so unfair. It's just writes the test for you first. So on this point of builders, one of my favorite slides from your talk that um, I want to ask you about is who you are hiring and who what you look for in people. And so I'll read what you said there, and I want to hear more here. So the two profiles that you now look for when you're hiring are creative builders with product sense and deep systems experts for the hard parts. Yeah, the deep subject matter expertise. Like, for example, when I first joined Claude Code, we had really great um, kind of like product generalists. And then I realized, oh, we were missing folks with uh, systems background. And so that was definitely an area that we we needed more folks with kind of like systems and distributed systems expertise. Um, and so I would say whatever are the parts that it's all about trust but verify. The models are really good, but there are definitely a lot of areas that still need, you know, the verification. And so wherever you need the deep uh, subject matter expertise, I would say that's, you know, an area to definitely still invest in. Um, and the other one is kind of like the the the product uh, the product sense. Look, it's almost like the dreamers. Like, these are folks that usually will be like, my gosh, are really passionate about a product. And they have an idea, they build it, and then it's always like looking at the feedback and then iterating and polishing and making sure that the product is a delightful experience. Like, owning that product end-to-end, uh, that's that's like a another skill set that's served us really well on Claude Code. This super resonates. There's this word ambition. I don't know if you used it, but that's what I thought of as you were talking. That's been coming up a bunch recently um, in the podcast and in other work I've been doing. There's this 10x C engineer I was talking to the other day and he was just like, I used to like, I heard about a feature idea. Like, I someone's like, hey, we should build this. And I was like, no, that's really hard and complicated. And he's like, but now, I'm like, no, no, that's so possible. I just ask Claude Code to do it. And it just does it. And it's this whole mindset shift. And he's just realizing, now it's about how ambitious can you be? Like, everything is now possible, in theory. Now it's about how ambitious and how big can you think versus just like, okay, it's all these stupid little features and things I have to unblock. Does that Does that resonate? Is that something that you think about? Yes. Actually, I was just catching up with an engineer uh yesterday and um, uh he actually is not a mobile engineer by trade. But we really needed to uh update this feature to also have uh a mobile footprint. And it was just amazing. Like he's like, you know what? Cuz it it it and it's common cuz you might think, wait, but I don't I'm not like an Android expert. But now, thanks to Claude, actually, I can actually have a partner and actually also do this on the mobile surfaces. And so that definitely resonates. It it's like the it's lifted the ceiling of what and anyone is able to do. Let me follow that thread. As the role has transformed in such a crazy way, some people are thriving, some people super frustrated, unhappy, fighting, resisting. What do you see common across the people that are doing really well, the engineers that have adapted and are thriving versus the engineers and, you know, even outside engineering that are just like frustrated and having a bad time? I would say that growth mindset really, really helps. Like actually even before um AI tooling, I found that has been just so valuable and I I learned that a lot actually it was the shift from at um Microsoft to Meta. That was where I first real that first year, I'm like, oh, this is what having a growth mindset really means. It's really this concept of always be learning because also what served you to get you to this point may not uh serve you no longer. But it's really hard because of course everybody like we all, you know, we've all gotten to the state by acting or, you know, like operating in a certain way. And so sometimes it is a little bit scary to think, wait, you're ask like, but I've been successful so far. You're asking me to change what has made me successful. And so I I would say like the growth mindset is is really really has has really served me well and I think it's also served others well um that that I noticed like always leaning in with curiosity and always being able to learn. Um, and then in terms of like the frustration, I think sometimes I also see a little bit of fear. And so my advice there is at least this is how just in life I've because we all have fear is of course an evolutionary like I'm I I didn't study anthropology, but I think it, you know, it makes sense, right? It helps us make sure we were able to survive and not get eaten and, you know, uh by by larger predators. But for anything that, you know, that that there is a fear, my advice is, kab lean in and ask, okay, is there some What can I do about it? What is within my control? Cuz sometimes the frustration comes from fear and feeling like, but everything is outside of my control. And so it's happening to me. And so if you think about, okay, what is in your control, um, and instead of it happening to you, is it happening for you? And then what's what's something that you might be able to kind of like do and change? Like I felt that's been helpful because if not, it it it it is super frustrating to have the fear and then feeling like everything's outside your control. Like I actually remembered um, when I was in actually when I was in high it's funny when we were going back to IBM, uh when I was in high school, I actually didn't uh go into computer science or engineering. Like I really want to be a visual artist. And this is how far back we go. Back then computers were really expensive. So I actually didn't even have access to a computer. My first computer was uh access to computer was grade nine, I think, in high school. I don't even know if this happens in high school anymore. My high school had a typing class where you would attend class just to learn how to type on a keyboard and learn to be really proficient. And that was my first time and then, you know, the next class was maybe like um some HTML programming. So anyways, it it it but the reason why I fell in love with it was while what I love about art is creating. And being able if you have an idea, you can go ahead and create and tell a story. And then I realized, oh, computers and programming, you know, that that's that's um enables me to do that. So anyways, I I tried to really fast track to make up for all the, you know, science classes for me to get into university. But I had this fear of, oh, but how will I afford to get into an engineering school? And it was this big unknown. Uh I grew up in Ontario. So I was very grateful. I knew there was an Ontario, you know, school assistance program, OSAP, I think it's called, which I'm very grateful for. But I didn't know how much of that would cover my tuition or like expenses. And it was just a known and it would be like a year a year out. And I remember thinking, okay, what can I what can I do about it? And then as as luck would have it, the National Bank of Canada just posted this flyer in our high school saying, hey, we're hiring high school interns to be a bank teller. And I remembered, oh, that like I and of course, it was going to be minimum wage, but I I I I thought that that could be a lifeline. But it was funny because the class I hated the most in high school was accounting, so I don't know if I'd be any good at it at all. But I signed up to be a bank teller. And that ended up being such a great decision because I worked all summer, saved up and then actually I was able to work as a bank teller on the weekends. So like, yeah, while I went to I would go to school Monday to Friday and then on Saturdays, I would be a bank teller. And that ended up being this lifeline that enabled me to, you know, like pay for all my school expenses. Um, and, you know, we talked about the the year 2000 dot-com crash. Then when folks weren't hiring as much interns, actually, I continued being a bank teller for for two two years uh and and so but but like that was the one action I felt I could take that was within my control to try to counter this fear I have of if I'm really going to go down this path, I don't even know if I could have afford to go to school. So that's probably my other advice of like growth mindset and the source of, you know, frustration or anxiety, if it's coming from, you know, the like, see if there's some is there one action that's within your control that you can take um to, you know, so it it it it like cuz I think there's and, you know, there was a saying like, do something, what would you do if you're not afraid? Actually. Those were my two favorite sayings before, like, what would you do if you're not afraid and do something scary once in a while? Cuz that's also usually how we grow. Um, I found that when you're when you're really good and proficient what you do, you're kind of at peak, you know, like maximum efficiency. But then how do you keep growing is you then do something scary that you might not have done before. And yeah, you will kind of have a dip because you need to learn. But that's kind of how you um keep pushing yourself to learn. The quote that I have probably used the most on this podcast of all quotes is, the cave you fear contains the treasure you seek. Oh, I love that. Yeah, and it's so true. Just like, like I forget who put this, but just the thing that is scariest is like that's a compass towards that's what you should be doing. I'm I'm going to steal your quote. They please do. Like, you know, there's like, don't do all the scary things, like maybe don't jump off a cliff, but maybe your career, in career moves, it's probably a good a good choice. So kind of following this path, something that I know that is important to you, something you think about, that I also think about is this kind of gap that is forming between people that are just like leaning into AI, killing it, doing super well, and then people that are just like not. And this is like a scary time for people that may be left behind in this uh new world that is emerging. Uh I know you spend a lot of time with small businesses. That's a big passion of yours to help people learn how to use AI in their work. Talk about just like how you think about that and what maybe we should be thinking about to help folks, you know, stay not not fall behind, basically. Oh, I I I love this. Yeah, it's one of my passion topics because uh I kind of mentioned, you know, like growing up in Canada. Um, and I I moved there when I was a kid. Uh, I was born in Hong Kong. So I didn't speak any English, and my parents had to work all the time. So my grandma, who is the best grandmother anyone could have ever asked for. I know everybody thinks their grandma's the best, but I really was so lucky. I had the best grandma. She moved with us uh just to take care of me while my parents were working. But neither of us spoke English, but I was able to learn how to speak English by, you know, going to school and speaking with classmates. And when I think about my grandma, it was a very alienating for her to be, you know, in a new country where and, you know, back then it wasn't as walkable. Um, but one summer, I remembered we just happened to find this little yarn shop uh that was owned by a lady that also spoke Cantonese. And so that became every week we would go to this yarn shop this summer. My grandma found her knitting circle and then I think I learned how to do like macrame. Uh, which I think is having a comeback, by the way. It's all it's always funny to see what Macrame coming back. Macrame. I think yeah. You heard it here first on Lenny's podcast. I think Macrame is coming back. All right. Um, but but that was probably probably where my love came from. I'm like, oh, wow, this little small business created this wonderful sense of community. And I've been really fortunate to, you know, become friends with all the small businesses that that I love. So that that's kind of like where the passion comes from. And then, um, what how it happened was I was using co-work for my own uh, business uh, expensing travel. I don't know what it is. I really don't like doing business expensing. And when I was using co-work, it was magic. I'm like, all these things that I don't like to do, like co-work is doing for me. And I'm like, wait a minute, all my friends and honestly, small business owners, they really bust their butt. Like they work incredibly hard, um, and they're use, you know, like sometimes might be operating on really small margins. And so I thought, if it's if Claude Code is so good at helping me do my little, you know, business travel expense, this would be huge for it cuz I I see my friends sometimes sitting at the bar with stacks of bills and all they're doing is invoicing and expensing and and I think nobody actually really likes to do it. So that's kind of uh, where it came from. And then so yeah, I remembered uh, trying like helping uh, a couple of them on board and and uh, it was also very humbling to to see them go through our onboarding flow. Actually, it it found some really good bugs. So it was really like a a win-win. But it was also delightful for me cuz they also use co-work in in ways that I I wouldn't have thought about, cuz I was all fixated on, look at how it is amazing with PDFs and invoice. And then, um, you know, one of my friends who who runs two restaurants, she's like, oh, my gosh, this folder I have is like a junk drawer of like, it it's basically our, you know, documents folder just becomes this junk drawer of every or downloads, like, just you know, like the kitchen junk drawer. And she's like, I know I have a few menus in here and I can't find it. And I'm like, well, let's ask co-work. So we gave co-work access to the directory, found the menus. And then she used it in a really unique way. She goes, like, I want to make sure I keep my prices reasonable for locals and tourists. So she goes, hey, Claude, look across my style of cuisine in this area. Is it comparable? And it came back with really cool, almost like market analysis. And she goes, hey, I actually just went to that restaurant in Seattle and that was pretty good. Um, so I learned something every time and uh, and yeah, they've been like giving me great feedback as well. So the question then is just like, how do we how do we spread this to everybody? Because as you, you know, there's like like a lot of people are just like, I don't have time for this. Or, I hate AI. It's just like, I want to ignore it. Is it like talking? Is it just talking about this, sharing examples? What do you think? How do how what's like a way to make a dent in this uh in this problem? For all of us, especially to your listeners who are probably very AI-pilled, if there's anyone either in their community or their family that that has like I would start with, what has something that really you felt um has that you really have felt has made a meaningful life change uh for you with with the AI tools. And then seeing if that is a conversation starter for because for me, AI is a tool. Again, it's the whole light and the dark. I totally understand the frustrating part as well. But for me, I'm also about like knowledge is power. Like have to learn how to use the tools because it could actually, you know, be the light part of that light and dark equation. So I think that that would that's something that I would love everybody's help with of if there's whether it's a community member or even if there's a business you really like and think, hey, have you ever It's it's it's a little awkward to start. Like I remember when I first reached out to my friends, I'm like, cuz I don't talk about what I do uh with them a lot, but I'm like, hey, uh kind of, you know, working in AI, can I can I it it sounds it's it's even unnatural for me to do cuz I'm, you know, like I'm like, hey, can I show you what, you know, co-work is possible? And and uh and then uh but it ended up we ended up having a lot of fun. So yeah, I would love for like that conversation starter um would be great of yeah, cuz I just want to make sure we keep sharing the the knowledge and, you know, making the tool equitable, cuz if not, I'm concerned that the divide grows larger and larger. Me too. I find that sharing use cases, as you said, is so powerful. I was just using co-work the other day to fill out my my son's camp forms. And just sharing that on Twitter, just like a lot of people are like, oh, wow, I didn't think about that. And it's just like these little things you don't think about that co-work and Claude Code can do. Kind of along those lines, speaking of co-work, if you think about it, Anthropic has been super early on uncovering these really big opportunities ahead of everyone else. For example, coding, so far ahead. Like realizing, this is a huge market, whether it was intentional or not. Uh, it was just like, whoa, that's maybe the biggest new business opportunity in history. Uh, and then co-work is a great example. Just leaning into knowledge work, let's just make let's just solve all the knowledge work. Why not? So far ahead of everyone else. Another element is it feels like a focus on the personality of the model, something you all were very early on, just how important that is, not just for the experience, but just also the intelligence and success of the model. What is it that you think Anthropic and the teams do differently that allows you to uncover these opportunities and then just go big on them before other labs, let's say? Well, I haven't worked in any other labs, so I'm not sure how other labs operate, but I I will share like, yeah, with um, and like actually on the Claude Code team as well and co-work, like we also keep an eye on like latent demand. Now, we're very fortunate with coding as a use case because so many end that we were, you know, like our our own first customers and we're able to do like really rapid feedback. And and so I think um, but latent demand has has been like a like, for example, like co-work, we noticed, hey, a lot of folks that were not necessarily coders were were using Claude Code. Can we make that experience better? Um, I think that's actually even outside of Anthropic, that's served me well in in all the different products I've worked on. Um, but uh, and and actually it's funny, you mentioned like, you know, the the Claude for, uh, you know, my passion for small business, after I, you know, had helped a few of this business, we ended up now launching Claude for small business, which is really cool, cuz I and and I totally didn't come from me, so I'm not taking credit. But I noticed it too of like when I was working with and then because they were asking me, oh, does it have this plug-in? Or this plug-in? I'm like, I think it does. And then we have to, you know, go and search for it. So, actually, now Claude for small business bundles it all up. So it's like co-work, you just have this little toggle. And uh, there were there were there was a wonderful team that's been kind of like, uh, you know, doing uh, co-work sessions with small business that probably found, hey, we could have like an efficiency gain here. Um, or like make the experience better. And so I I I would say like, always, uh, not only for products that you're on, like making sure you always, uh, you know, listening to feedback and always iterating, trying to make a delightful, reliable, high-quality experience, but then also keeping an eye out for, oh, what are these other use cases that that are popping up? And can we also make that experience better? Um, it's it's interesting, like, after like, you know, in software, I've learned that customers will use your product in ways that you did not intend for good or for bad. And so the the best way, um, is really like, it's all about that iteration, learn, and, um, keep close to the feedback. Latent demand, that's a that term's come up a bunch on this podcast. There's some there. Might be somewhere now. So essentially, it's just watching closely for behavior that you may not have expected or that is just kind of emerging. And then just going big on that, essentially, exploring it, building something. Awesome. And having a hypothesis for, hey, like, because actually, when you see people jumping through hoops to make something work, can you actually make that an even like a smoother and and better experience? Yeah. Coming back to the way that your teams operate, you guys are so at the edge of what's possible, and the role of just engineering has changed so much. I'm curious what you think is the next kind of frontier of how engineering in particular is going to change. Is it like, I don't know, fleets of agents? Is it something else? Just like what's like the next big shift to how engineers operate that either you're already working on or implementing or just like is starting to happen? I would say we're shifting more towards async, like asynchronous. And so to your point, the the fleets of agent, like that that's why routines is so interesting cuz it's almost like I used to be like, you know, doing a prompt and synchronously. And then uh I would like maybe like kick off different prompts asynchronously. But now I can actually have a routine that actually generates, you know, these these prompts for me. So it's almost like the level of abstraction keeps keeps pulling up a little bit. And so I would yeah, I wish I had a crystal ball to see what this is going to look. It'll be fun actually for you and me to revisit a year from now. No, no, I want to hear more about this. This is so help us understand what is what is routines? And then what is what do you say asynchronous? You're writing a prompt and it just kind of goes off and is it writing it immediately? Talk about what this actually looks like. Ah, yes. So, uh routines is like how you can aut Like, so if you remember, I was sharing about my what I used to do is always like, you know, wake up with my morning cup of coffee and, hey, look at through this Slack channel for me. But then now, like, I have a routine uh that I set to run every morning at a certain time to say, hey, It's like a cron job. Mhm. That's right. Uh but then it's able to actually go and kick off agents on your behalf. And so that's because like that's what like and, you know, even, you know, before it would be, oh, you you could like, yeah, do a cron job to automate. Like, but now it's, hey, look at these feedback. And then if you're seeing some of these bugs that, what are some polish fixes that you might be able to to knock out? And then it would like go kick off. And then I wake up and I end up having PRs that I could review, versus before which is still more of agents and then it's still I'm still thinking about, okay, now what do I do with this information? So it's like that higher level abstraction of, okay, now how can I actually write a routine that also basically does prompts for me for responding different agents? Uh so I think we'll we'll move more towards that kind of like asynchronous style of working. So interesting. So, like, in a sense, as a manager, you have these kind of things you do daily, and what you're saying here is you can set up these prompts that kind of check in every day on the things you would have been doing. Like, how are the projects going? What's falling behind? What should I unblock? Who is uh who's struggling? Uh what's how do I fix them improve some some polish? And so the idea here, what you're describing here is kind of write these things that you almost do as a manager daily and have Claude essentially do them for you and then show you, here's what I'm doing, here's what I here's what there is to review. And then it's it's even like then giving it even more autonomy at some point of it, you know what? Like, go for it. Like, for example, if verification is really good, go for it. Yeah. I think so you give it like a little bit of freedom to do more of this. Okay, that is so interesting. It reminds me speaking on this idea of go for it, I don't like I wasn't planning to talk about this, but I just watched Tyler Cowen had this awesome talk about just like what's happened. I don't know if you know Tyler Cowen is really smart dude, economist, has a podcast. Uh and he just had like there's so much talk of the people that are doing best in this world, uh his term is um initiative. They have initiative. Uh another term people use agency. Is that something just like, you know, people hear this a lot, just like the people that seem to be doing best are taking the most initiative, getting the most proactive, have the most agency. Does that does that kind of spark any thoughts to you just with people maybe need to, I don't know, think about or improve on? Actually, that's something uh agency, it it's I love that word agency. That's what we really hold important on the Claude Code and Co-work team. Um, but it's interesting, I see along with cuz like we really it's about like, hey, here's a problem. And then it's really everybody uh on the team has ideas for how to address the prom. So it's really high agency. And then we say with high agency is also high accountability. So it's all about like making sure folks have that freedom to cook, you know, they and but then it's also like, okay, what's the accountability for it as well. And that's where and and again it goes back to like what's the hypothesis of what you're, you know, like trying to solve. So I think, yeah, the the balance like where, you know, almost like two sides of the same coin of agency and then accountability, I think has served our team really well. Such an important element. Have agency. Okay, cool. Everyone's off doing stuff, but okay, what if you actually what have you brought to the up? What have you done? So kind of along those lines, it feels like there's this vibe shift recently from token maxing, just go crazy, spend as much as possible, just see what's possible, to like, wait, what are we actually getting out of this? How much does it cost? What's the ROI? Uh, interestingly, Boris was actually like head of productivity, edge productivity at Meta. That was like his job is measuring edge productivity. And uh and then also just this like tweet of Claude's code, like code ship, like there's just like interesting discussion of just how do you actually measure productivity increase and ROI of AI tools and spend. How do you, like, you know, you guys have the unfair advantage of getting free free tokens working in Anthropic. With that in mind, what what have you learned about just how to measure, say, ROI of engineers in today's world? This inch productivity is such a fascinating topic. Um, yeah, cuz I remembered, you know, like like even Boris mentioned, like, you know, we'll first start with like lines of code. And then that's throughput. And then I remembered once then there was a debate of, well, lines of code, this engineer had this crazy lines of code, but they just took some library and then just was porting it. So they checked it in. And then I was like, well, maybe it's significant lines of code. And then it's, well, but what if we're, you know, updating our frameworks and now we're generating less code, but like the output is still the same. So now it's like, okay, maybe it's it's like time to land PR. Like, but but it's very interesting of it's always been whichever metric, it's it's um, like if if you're really focused on the out like my advice here is, one is output, like is the output really going towards the outcome? Cuz yeah, like the the the the token maxing, it's kind of like a it's it's almost like the lines of code that we used to have. But I'm really much more about a um, what is it that we're trying to to do? Like all all of this, you know, there there was another saying I really like, don't forsake motion for progress. Um, because if you're measuring like, you know, like tool user usage, then you're you're measuring the action, but is it really making whatever that outcome of yours like important? Um, and so I I really uh try to zoom out and focus on what is the problem we're trying to solve? What's a good way to measure that? And then that's what we we focus mostly on versus kind of like the the the productivity measurement. Um, I would say though, like outside of metrics, especially if on teams as you're having more people adopt AI tooling, I would say definitely go um on a listening tour for for for the leaders listening to a podcast. Especially, you know, um, I I love to focus on the senior engineers as well. Like, hear from them on what's working, what's not. How can we actually make it better? Cuz they will also help you multiply and scale that up across a full engineering team. And sometimes it's those conversations where you might get spark an idea that comes up and also really good shared learning versus um, you know, like metric dashboards. It's it's very interesting. I've learned some good lessons for metrics. I'm all about like, it's really great when you have uh a metric that you can actually heel climb on. But always keep in mind of is, you know, kind of my whole growth mindset of is it still serving you? Always keep in mind like, is that metric really uh still serving the outcome that you were aiming for? Um, like a fun example I have of this is in the early Facebook marketplace days. We were kind of like launching by region and we really want to make sure we're building a delightful product before we expand. And I remember in the early days, one thing we were keeping an eye on is kind of like number of sellers. And I remembered after launching her first region, I'm like, how in this area the number of sellers is low, but actually people are like people are finding items that they're looking for, which is what we're aiming for, right? Like helping people find items that that they need. And then I realized in that region, it wasn't uh large number of sellers, but there were power sellers. But our first gate before we expand would have just been like, you know, factoring heavily number of sellers. And I remember that quick conversation of, hey, and this goes back to that whole people use things in ways you may not expect and shift iterate learn. And so, uh, so then we updated the the metric to go, oh, you know, like it's not uh number of sellers because it didn't factor in power sellers. And so that's the advice I have too, like, whatever metric, whether for productivity or even for product, always keep an eye and make sure that you're not just having blinders on that's blindly following a metric that used to make sense because sometimes the landscape can change so fast. Uh even the metrics themselves might need to be adjusted. And this comes back to your uh process that you shared of having Claude watch all the PRs shipping per engineer, let's say, and then not focusing on the metrics, but focusing on that leading to a conversation about what impact did this have? What was maybe some bugs that happened? And that being a really powerful way of understanding how what's going on with this engineer. Awesome. I like that. Yeah, I like the bad and sad. So these are kind of like thresholds of this is bad. Okay, this is serious. And this is in terms of like performance or or or failures or what what sort of things are you measuring here? Uh, so for example, like we we allow each team, like speak of agency. So knowing that bad is like really bad, irrecoverable error. And sad is something that's kind of like a pain point recoverable. But it's interesting when you stack up sad, it could, you know, generally go to bad. But even having like starting with a high-level framework like that, because if not, like I think sometimes with dashboards, you can have, you know, like uh time to load or all these other, but when you're dealing with a lot of different product surfaces, it's harder to go, wait, is that a good number or not a good number? And so one thing that's helped us is versus just raw, you know, like performance or uh, you know, like reliability numbers, also having some framework of what we think is, you know, like a uh, a bad experience and making sure we're focused on addressing those and then also keeping an eye on where we're seeing in terms of the sad. I like that advice. Yeah. So, it's kind of like the fiber um of the team. And it like when it starts drifting, it it's uh it I'm always worried of, you know, like if it if it drifts, are we catching it? And having conversations as a team together to to to make sure we're kind of all wanting the culture to grow in the right direction. Yeah, I imagine this is something a lot of people struggle with considering the pace of change and the pace of hiring, just like, especially at a company like Anthropic that's in this crazy, like, the most unprecedented growth trajectory in history. I could see how that could be a a challenge, uh with so much change. So, uh it makes sense. Like, even, you know, at Airbnb, when I was there, like, that was quite a growth trajectory. And that was nothing like what you guys are going through. And that was a constant topic of conversation. How do we maintain the culture? Actually, I'm curious what was your experience at Airbnb to maintain the culture? There were a couple of things. One is just the what worked well is the founders being obsessed with it. Like every every all hands, every every big meeting is just like reminding of like the culture and the value of the culture. And what the values are. Just the founders top down being obsessed with it was a really big part of it. It just like couldn't have a meeting without that coming up as a as a thing. The other is, a memory I always come back to is what Sheryl Sandberg can met to come to come do a fireside chat. And somebody asked her just how do you maintain culture as you scale? Because we're just growing so fast and it's so hard to deal with all this change and culture and all these new people. And her advice was this is actually the the problem you want to have because this means you're growing and doing well. And this is normal versus nothing will change if you're doing badly. Like that's that's the that's a much worse situation when you're not growing and you're not hiring like crazy. That's a much worse situation that will cause all even more pain and suffering. So this is what this is a good problem you're you're you're dealing with. This is is her advice, which has always stuck with me. Oh, that's great. Like, it's interesting, like, here you talk. I think one of the important things to kind of Claude Code and co-work team is, um, whether uh ICs or managers, but this is I think I especially ask for managers on the team is really important that we all talk about for sure what's going on, but also just be open about what's not going well. Because then if we can actually have a conversation, what's not going well, that's how we can actually go ahead and address it. Like my my my nightmare is especially if someone's in a manager position and and I'm like, hey, how are things going? Everything's fine. I'm like, oh, my gosh. I'm not doing fine. I know this thing's all like like it's that that whole like, you know how there was this meme of the dog with a cup of coffee in a room that's on fire. This is like that that is my my nightmare. So that's actually um uh a discussion I have with a lot of uh folks on the team, but especially managers, especially when they first joined of, hey, let's always have these open conversations so that we can solve problems together. I imagine this is something a lot of people struggle with. Seeing so many people around them doing super well, at least seemingly doing well. Everything's going great. I'm growing. This is awesome company or I just like everything it's hard to it's like hard to actually be honest and say, it's not going great. I'm struggling here. I'm falling behind. Because everyone around you is just like on the surface feeling like they're killing it. Yeah. Before we get to our very exciting lightning round, is there anything else that you either want to leave listeners with, anything else that we didn't cover, anything else that's important that you wanted to share? Maybe one thing is like just a suggestion of because, you know, we talked about how how can Claude do like automate? Like one other thing that's really um big on Claude Code and co-work team culture is explicit permission to kill processes that no longer serve us. And so maybe a suggestion is for, you know, any any anyone, you know, like on working on a team or leading teams, like, pick your, like, what's one process that you either dread doing, or is really highly noisy, or is like really expensive in terms of like just a lot of like it it might but or something that's just very manual. Like pick one thing and, um, for us, ask, is it still having its purpose? Like, for example, what like even our planning, like actually that was my own big first learning when I first joined Claude Code. I'm like, hey, maybe we should, you know, do a six-month roadmap doc. And and but we're going to do it super lightweight cuz I don't want to waste a lot of time planning. And I I felt we did a really lightweight process. But that was such a good learning for me cuz uh the exercise was good to kick start conversations and ensure everyone's aligned. But like three months into it, I'm like, wait, have we still referenced? Because so much has changed. That was also something I like. And so that was also something I changed to that I myself brought in thinking, hey, maybe this will this will help. So always be open to learning and always ask yourself whatever process you have, is it still serving its purpose? Just because the field is changing so fast. I love that advice. I got to follow up on this real quick. So what is it? How do you think about planning now? Do you do any planning? Is it just like a month-long roadmap? What's kind of like the simple way to explain where you're at with that? Yeah, I I I call it JIT planning now. Like just in time planning. So it it is like around like cuz yeah, I think six months was too long. So now for sure some projects we'll take more than a month, but we try to do like a a month uh planning, like really lightweight. Actually, there's not even docs. It's really just aligning on a on a little spreadsheet of what we think's important. But even that when I'm I'm kind of thinking through, hey, like every week we should probably still keep a like what we're trying is here are the the month's priorities. And we're going to try it up. But I have a feeling like every week we'll probably want to do a really quick like, hey, just to check. Yep. The this is the still this is the month's priorities. Good. Um but yeah, like but now we've we've shrunk it to JIT monthly planning. So it's monthly, meaning for the next month. Here's a little uh sheet/Excel spreadsheet of what we're planning to do for the next month. And then every week, check in, is this still what we're planning to do for the next month? Yeah, it's it's like like very very But even that one, I I'm also still feeling like, how can we even automate this more? Cuz I don't I never want it to be feeling like a tax when someone has to, you know, update the spreadsheet. So this is actually, yeah, like just yesterday we're chatting, hey, how can we actually uh automate this? It's like my PM brain is like, that's so like how could you not do something like that? Okay, here's what we're thinking for the next month. Let's just check it once a week. Make sure this is Like it's hard to imagine that not happening. Um and you don't have a lot of items on this spreadsheet is what I'm hearing also. Yeah, but like we really try to focus. So like we'll we'll we'll share out like here's what we think are the highest priorities. And again, for that agency of given the priorities, then like everybody's like, they're kind of like item for how they think addresses those priorities. And is there anything that's like, here's for the next like six months, bigger bets, kind of stuff? Or is it just like, let's just think one month ahead? I like so we'll usually, definitely, there's themes of where we think the the work. And so we'll we'll definitely like, um and actually the the whole team will bring everyone together uh like uh every every six months. So there we'll usually kick off like some themes, but then it's really the making sure we keep the pulse of what because again, like even though themes change, you know, so fast when uh the landscape changes. All right, let's pull up the spreadsheet. Let's take a look. Oh man, man, this this whole podcast could have been just talking about this planning stuff that you do. Okay, I'm going to have to find someone else to talk about this cuz this is so interesting. Just how you all plan. Uh yeah, okay. Well, Fiona, with that, we reached our very exciting lightning round. I've got five questions for you. Are you ready? Ready. Okay. First question, what are two or three books that you find yourself recommending most to other people? Ooh, I will say for fiction, uh actually, two authors I recommend to everyone, Margaret Atwood and uh Haruki Murakami. Um, those are just two like and like I I mean, I grew up in Canada. So so I I read a lot a lot of Atwood growing up, but her books are fascinating cuz it's almost like speculative fiction of you can kind of squint and say, okay, could could this actually, you know, like happen to to society? So so I love her take on speculative fiction. And Murakami, I love his um magical realism style. It's it's um but then the one book, so they're authors, but the one book I always recommend to everyone to read at least once a year or, you know, um, The Little Prince. I like I I I think I'm I'm sure we've probably all read it at at some point in our lives, but I think it's a I I read it at least once a year just, you know, to to remind me to to think about like what's truly important. Wow. That doesn't come up a bunch. Okay, I love it. Uh favorite recent movie or TV show you've really enjoyed? I haven't watched TV shows. That's very common across Anthropic people I have on the podcast. Some of you. But I will share with you what I always have downloaded on my phone so that if I'm on on the airplane, um so there's three movies I I'll always have on my phone cuz I I think they're just so so fun to to to watch if I have time. One is Amelie. It's this uh French movie that oh, my gosh, all of these movies are going to be very old by the way. It's going to be like vintage movies. But I I I loved Amelie. Super whimsical. So really highly recommend it to um anyone that haven't seen it. It's uh, you know, if I if you remember, I told you I was, you know, going on a I thought I was going to be a visual artist. So when I was 16, my high school we took a a high school trip to Paris. And that that just I I've so many memories of that and Amelie really captures the magic, I felt, uh Paris. And the other two are are Ghibli films. Uh I love Spirited Away. That's um it's just such a like just such a I just love that story. I I I love the yeah, like I I just love every everything about Spirited Away. It's probably one of my favorite Ghibli films. And then the third one's another Ghibli film, um Nausicaä Valley of the Wind. And uh I I think about this one quite a bit because if anyone asks me, hey, how did you kind of think about, you know, all these leadership traits? I think what I I've watched that movie probably when I was eight or nine. And the the heroin Nausicaä and how she's seeing how she leads just left such a like um just left such a thumbprint in my heart, I guess you could say that probably Nausicaä has inspired me to a lot in a lot of my different leadership principles. Wow. What what is that book called again? Uh the the movie's called like Nausicaä Valley of the Wind, but it was actually based on a on a manga. book. Valley of the Wind. So it's like high output management and the Grove. Valley of the Wind. Nausicaä. Two top management books. So cool. Okay. Uh, do you have a favorite product you recently discovered that you really love? Could be an app, coding, coding, could be a gadget, could be kitchen equipment, uh I'll share the product that I'm reminded of how much has made a difference in my life recently. Uh cuz I've been just traveling a a little bit. And so I don't and I like to travel really light. So I I use whatever shampoo and conditioner, you know, the the hotel gives. And I forgot that um, so the the the product that I and actually have one of their. I promise this is not an infomercial. Sweet Sisters body care. It's you know, a a local business on on Whidbey Island. Um, but the reason why their product has made such a big difference in my life. Uh it's a full line of organic hair, body, skincare. But a few years ago, I started getting this rash on my nose right here that was really painful. Like actually bleeding. And I could not for the life of me figure out how to stop it. Like I tried not using any lotions. I got I cut everything on on my face and it was still really hurting. And then somebody says, what's the shampoo you're using? I'm like, it's the same shampoo I've used since I was, you know, like a teenager. They're like, maybe your body has now um and it's, you know, like generic, you know, brand shampoo they give you anywhere. And they said, maybe your body's just starting developing an allergy to to it because of the chemicals uh in it that. I'm like, what? And so anyways, this was an organic shampoo that I found. Lo and behold, I used their shampoo. And then because I you don't think that when you wash your hair, it actually then, you know, like goes goes over to to the to the rest of your body, but so since then I've switched everything that I used to be sweet sisters. Um, but I'm recently reminded of how important this is cuz after a week of uh, yeah, hotel shampoo, I I actually started having some skin reactions again. I'm like, ah, maybe I should get like travel size bottles that I can bring with me. This is an awesome pick. I love local, local business picks, even big bonus points for that. Uh and by the way, this travel you're doing, just for folks that may not know this, there's uh there's these code with Claude events that are happening all over the world. I went to the one in SF, there was one in London. You're going to one in Tokyo. Is that the end of it or is there more after that? Uh Tokyo is so yeah, that's next week and that's the last leg of of the trip. Okay, okay, and then you're probably probably more in the future. Uh so cool. I love that that's happening. Okay, two more questions. Do you have a favorite life motto that you find yourself coming back to often in work or in life? Oh, um, so in work, I really love to remind folks, keep it simple. Like, what is the the thing that you're really trying to do well and and focus on that? Do do, you know, do do like keep it simple cuz I think sometimes we could overthink. Um so it's always a good mantra to think if you have that. Uh and then in life, um, you know, probably in a world where you can be anything, be kind. I love that one. I we were at a Montessori school uh tour and that's what the teacher had up on the wall. Oh, like it's you know, we have we have so many things going on that you never know what's going on in someone else's life and that one small act of of kindness can make the biggest difference. Like, um for for me, actually, that was when do you remember COVID? We were all like working from home during, you know, the COVID. How could I forget? Um, I it it just always really stuck struck with me cuz I I think I'm I'm sure most people have shared this already, but would love feedback of what's going well, what's not going well. Um also any latent demand that you all all using that might be interesting use cases. You know, I had a friend message me recently to go, oh, I'm using Claude to help me generate uh a building plan for my shed. And he actually showed me his his hope his hope shed, which was cool. So what would love to hear about that. And then uh yeah, maybe also, you know, we talked about reaching out to someone, whether a small business that you love, or or someone that you feel like hasn't uh you know, as you know, all the listeners are super AI-pilled, uh yeah, maybe take a time to hold somebody's hand to show what's um AI might be able to help them with. Such a good one. That is such a good answer to this question. Especially coming from you. Fiona, this was awesome. Thank you so much for being here. Thanks so much for having me, Lenny. Bye everyone. Thank you so much for listening. If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review, as that really helps other listeners find the podcast. You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at LennysPodcast.com. See you in the next episode.
