---
title: "The AI Agents Helping Home Services Book More Jobs - 原始文稿"
channel: "Y Combinator"
published: "2026-06-29"
source_url: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EHp1HgwCo9I"
video_id: "EHp1HgwCo9I"
variant: "transcript"
---

# The AI Agents Helping Home Services Book More Jobs - 原始文稿

- **Channel:** Y Combinator
- **Published:** 2026-06-29
- **Source:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EHp1HgwCo9I
- **Main:** [The AI Agents Helping Home Services Book More Jobs](2026-06-29-the-ai-agents-helping-home-services-book-more-jobs-EHp1HgwCo9I.md)

Today we're sitting down with the founders of Aoka. They're a winter 23 YC team that in the last two years has made it to eight digits in revenue and actually growing so fast it's very rare to get to 2x growth in a single 90-day period. And here we are. Welcome Aerve. Welcome Tyson. >> Thank you. Thank you. really happy to be here and excited to be in this podcast. >> So off the bat obviously incredible growth you know what is AOCA >> at AOCA we are building the AI workforce for the physical economy starting with home services. So the idea is think of like the entire world of you have your HVAC businesses your plumbing your electrical all your these service businesses we think that the entire industry is about to change with how AI is going to be working with humans to get jobs done and that's what we're building. It sounds like one of the things that they really sort of struggle with is, you know, someone has a problem. They actually call lots of different home services and uh nobody responds. >> That's exactly the starting insight that me and Tyson found, which is that both our backgrounds, so I grew up in Michigan, Tyson grew up in Pennsylvania. Both of our backgrounds, we were working in companies like this where we saw that actually phone calls is one of the biggest ways that all these businesses get revenue. And so our insight was if we can build an AI agent that goes and answers the phone, we can be adding value to these customers in the most meaningful way, which is new revenue. >> And so there's definitely something special about home services that you figured out. Did you expect to sort of end up in this particular vertical? You know, it sounds like you had some experience there. >> I think home services was definitely uh you know, one one of the things where both Aorv and I uh you know, from our family backgrounds, we had uh that experience. So my mom was actually an acupuncturist, uh, one of the first ever acupuncturists in York, Pennsylvania. And growing up, I was her oneman CSR army, so helping her answer a lot of phone calls. So we always realized that this was uh an idea that, you know, made a ton of sense in terms of uh automating the the role of the receptionist. I think what really uh made us discover home services was we actually explored a variety of different industries. First, we looked into restaurants and through kind of talking to a bunch like door knockocking, we actually scouted 100 restaurants. But home services was the industry that found us in a way in the sense that in home services, a single phone call can be worth 20 to $30,000. Whereas in the world of restaurants, a single call is only $30 $40. And 85% of the revenue of a home service business comes from the phone calls. Whereas for restaurants, it's only like, you know, 20 30%. >> I want to double click on something that actually I think is a really powerful model broadly. Obviously, AI software starts off as software. In your particular case, there's a public company out there called Service Titan that is just the software, but you know, they're only 1% of wallet spend. I mean, when you're talking about these service providers, you know, they want to do the service. they don't really want to have to manage a call center or deal with all the support needs that you know but they are sort of forced to you talk to me about like you know if software in these markets they only spend 1% what's the expansion cuz you're not going to settle for just the 1% given AI today it's exactly right I mean for service sign today we see spends of like 1% 1.2 to 2% in that area, sometimes even 0.5%. It's all around that number. And the interesting part is that that's generally what people have spent for software. But the idea with what AI is trying to do and why we like to think of ourselves as bringing in the AI workforce is that you are now not only thinking about expenditure as just software expenditure to help your business. You're now thinking about, okay, how much labor do I need? What operations do I need to run my business? And how does that work from that? And so if you actually look at customer service or customer care, you look at inside sales, those units are actually 3 to 5% of total expenditure into a business. Whereas software only captures one. Now if you look at marketing, marketing is such a huge portion of what you need. It's how you get all your leads. That's 7 to 10%. So if you actually just look at some of the different kinds of AI workforces that you can hit into, you're not just trying to see how much of that 1% you can get. You're now hitting into this 15 plus percentage that you can see how much impact you can make into that. So that's I mean 15 times as big. >> We initially started as a singular wedge which was the AI CSR like replacing their uh you know a lot of their call center needs. Uh but now you know over the course of the last 6 months we're seeing insane ACB expansion sometimes on the order of 5 to 10x. And if you look at some of our top uh customers and you look at, you know, the amount that they spend on their CRM versus the amount they spend on us, we're already seeing in cases where we're able to get to two times that of the CRM. So, we're already proving by uh actually automating a lot of their uh workflow, we're able to be able to capture a much larger percentage of of the value there. at the risk of like going VC speak on this, you know, one of the funnier things that um you know, we hang out with our friends at um DST for instance and one of the things they're really excited about is actually exactly this idea from time immemorial like software has been sort of trying to get into more and more of the pie of GDP when it does it's getting that 1% which is not very much this very small percentage of like overall revenue that goes to stuff like this. You know what's great about tech and being working in tech is the street like they will actually value what we do at you know 10x 20x next 12 months revenue like that multiple is pretty wild like you see non- tech people look at what tech people get and they get very jealous about it uh but that's actually exactly what's happening today it's just matrix math guys like it's software that's built in a slightly you know more accelerated way because it also uses AI but it's actually jumping into, you know, payroll expenses, marketing, all of these other parts of, you know, share of wallet. A San Francisco based startup prior to maybe even 18 months ago never would have dreamed to be able to crack that part of wallet share and then being able to multiply your wallet share by 15x and have it be software that is valued at like 20x next 12 months. That's like going to be the avalanche of value. Like if you're trying to make something, this is actually the wildest story in all of like the world right now. >> I completely agree and actually I think it's even more crazy when you think about how early we are in terms of them how mature these AI tools are. Like we're still in the very earliest phases where in fact actually if you look at our product roadmap the most important things we haven't even started working on yet. We're still kind of getting into that and we've already been able to create so much value. And so I mean to your point about it's truly order of magnitudes level of different if we can execute really well. I feel like we should address like some of the stuff around you. Someone who just heard what we just talked about will say like, "Oh, wait. Well, aren't these people's jobs?" >> And the weird thing there is, I mean, the attrition rate on customer support is insane. >> In a normal um home service business, there's almost a close to 100% attrition rate over the course of 2 years. So, that means that almost no one from that initial cohort will still be there. And it's because the job is just it's not really fun, right? You're dealing with pissed-off customers all the time. The working conditions oftentimes aren't great and you're just overloaded with all these types of calls. What we really view our solution on the AICSR front is actually helping those folks. By having an AI that's able to take, you know, the 60 70% of what we call nuisance calls that aren't even revenue sensitive that actually allows their CSRs to spend more time doing the things that they're enjoy and actually, you know, have that unique human advantage for, which is, you know, outbound sales, stuff like that. And so, I definitely think that we don't really view it as come in and and and replace a lot of folks. is really to augment and allow them to scale in a much more efficient way. >> Have you seen the movie Office Space? >> Yeah. Yeah, I've seen that. >> Like the woman who's like they they put one of the characters next to someone a woman who's in CSR and who's like corporate account speaking just a moment and it's just like all day. That's like what they're doing. >> That's what I think of when like maybe a form of white collar torture if you really think about it. And then you know the opposite of that is like I was really taken by your story about you know some of the CSRs who work in your customers operations like sort of converted from like being tortured in that way. >> Yeah. A lot of them after using a voca for 9 months now is taking a lot of the calls that are not as enjoyable and they don't even really want to take a lot of them have been promoted to different positions in the organization. Some have been promoted to you know dispatch functions. uh and there's a new kind of role that's very interestingly emerging which is actually the person that's in charge of training and overseeing the AI agents and so some of the top CSRs the folk the ones that really see this and and try to think about what they can do to really help the business they've embraced this new role of being the person that can really pioneer kind of the team lead for my fellow AI agents >> that kind of rhymes with um you know sort of the revolution the car industry went through in the 80s where you know Japanese cars went from like kind of these rust buckets that people didn't like to buy to suddenly they were the most reliable and you know everyone preferred them and people were sort of worried like will people buy anything other than Japanese cars and the way they did that was actually empowering the worker so you know a Toyota production system famously had this thing called kaizen where like the people who have to do the work get empowered to redo the workflow of how it works and then it transforms this sort of like very wrote you know uh in a factory it's like how much more wrote could it be it turns it into play because like you are actively trying to make a system that you have control over better and better and then if you think about like what's happening in terms of transformation of the roles that when a voca comes into a CSR situation a lot of people are quitting 0% annual retention means like literally if you had 10 people all 10 people would quit that job on a 12-month basis, right? You know, if you took a couple of those people, you know, they were going to quit anyway, but instead they're wrangling AI agents and they're learning more about the customer. One of our customers, called a great example of that, their retention rates skyrocketed. Pretty big HVAC business in the Carolinas. And once they started using our uh Aoka agents to augment and and kind of be that first line of defense, they saw attrition rates go through the roof because people are now answering less calls and enjoying that more. >> I mean, I think this is an important story that, you know, people should sort of pay attention to. >> I say the biggest thing to even think about too is like if there was some kind of dynamic where people were losing jobs and they hated this Aoka or hate AI agents, you'd see the following in terms of customer value. you'd see that the owners of these businesses love you because maybe you're increasing revenue and your customer service teams hate you because they're kind of like oh the these guys are taking my job. In reality actually it's kind of funny like I mean the owners obviously love us for bringing them revenue but it's also the customer service teams they are super happy using VOCA. It's like a VOCA has actually been great for their businesses and they're able to now no longer be you know yelled at or be judged by making sure they answer every little call but now they can go focus on doing more important things in the company and we actually see that dynamic play out. So definitely at this stage it's it's super win-win and we foresee it being even more like that over time. >> Well, thanks for sharing the good news. I think there are a lot of AI startups out there who will be watching this who I'm like, oh actually this is sort of the example for what we should, you know, try to make happen and it's certainly possible. So thank you for making that happen. Switching gears a little bit, I love to hear about how the two of you came together as co-founders. It sounds like both of you were MIT and you met at a poker competition. This was many years back and it was kind of a casual um poker competition with uh just a group of folks. I remember uh meeting AORV. I was getting ready to leave. So I I uh decided to to go allin with nothing. And then a poor uh looked me dead in the eye. I didn't really even know him at this point. He looked me dead in the eye and he said, "If I fold, will you show me what you have?" And I was like, "Yeah, sure." And he's like, "Okay, well then I call." And then he just won all my money. >> Oh man. >> And I I remember leaving that day um really frustrated. >> But then uh we ended up becoming, you know, super super close friends. Um lived together uh in uh in San Francisco and and throughout New York for over 5 years. Just really got along uh had a lot of similar passions around uh AI in particular. And we we worked on a lot of different AI projects together. uh even even living together. We had built this one application when we were playing basketball one day. We're like, "Hey, who like what is actually our vertical jump?" And so literally the next day we decided to build a quick AI application where you take your phone and then you can video yourself jumping and it instantly tell you the vertical. >> Nice. >> And so we did a lot of these things together and and then ultimately um decided to build something. >> I mean both of you guys kind of cut your teeth on building pretty impactful things for you know Neuro for Retool. Do you want to talk about those things at all? >> Honestly, that there was a lot of really great work that was happening there. I mean, I can I can touch on retool for example. I mean, I think retool when I joined the company, they were very much like under 50 people like blitz scaling and I think all the way from you know figuring out what does our motions look like on product and think about for deployed engineering and all this stuff. It's like I was one of the first people to kind of be hired into for deployed engineering growing out that team fig out how do we see success for customers? how do we scale those operations? Like all sorts of different kind of work like that. So I think it was pretty great and honestly I'd say one of the biggest and most prideful things and I think we've kind of kept these values into Bokeh as well is that we hired an insanely strong and talented forward deploy engineering. I think some of the people there have gone on to be other founders today series A series B founders doing really well. It just shows that when you hire a great team and you can execute really well and these people will do great things in general and we we see that as well in Aoka where we think the people that are working here at Aboka have created something incredible and they will themselves be future incredible founders one day. >> Yeah, the FDE model is pretty awesome. My high school and college buddy I think was basically the first FTE in practice. Stephan Cohen, one of the co-founders of Palunteer, it was before the title was created but that's basically what Stefan did. And then uh our buddy Sham who now runs all kinds of things at uh Palunteer still he sort of formalized it into like a training program. >> It makes sense because I think for every business the most important thing is customer value and customer obsession. So if you can get someone who can understand the product and be technical and the engineering side and also interface with the customer they are potentially some of the most important people in any business because they're figuring out how does this product actually drive you to success. Truly it's an incredible model and I think it's worked really well. Well, you obviously need to get the right people and it's it's just amazing. >> For Neuro, I think one of the most I mean I worked on a lot of projects there for uh around 3 years. Some of the most interesting things at Nuro that uh probably impacted uh kind of my thinking and our thinking of of Aoka was some of the work I did with uh uh the human in the loop stuff. And so the team I was on it was called uh kind of supply. We built a lot of the internal tools powering uh kind of the operations of of neuro. One of the things was uh this program called Guardian when the autonomous vehicle was uh in trouble allowing a remote operator to kind of remote in and save the day. That was something that we actually took kind of a similar lesson from and incorporated it into the Ailica product as well. >> What were the tactical things there? It's like trying to figure out you know when should a human get involved. The most important things was understanding like when and also uh the providing the context, understanding when the autonomous vehicle is in trouble and ideally anticipating a few seconds beforehand and then being able to then give the human operator that's going to step in a bit of a preview into like the context of what's happening. You're not just immediately thrown into a situation where you have to kind of save the vehicle. >> That's funny. I mean, I guess in AI people are always uh doing context engineering for LLMs, but you're doing context engineering for humans in the loop then. >> Yeah, exactly. There's so many parallels between the world of autonomous vehicles and uh you know, AI agents were building at lea. >> I think you got into YC twice. Uh the first time you couldn't come over yet and then second time you guys did. Talk to me about your time in YC. >> So, I would say when starting the company, I would say the most important thing was me and Tyson. We were roommates for so long. and we wanted to work together and we were we had very similar ambitions and all that. I think in the early days we were kind of exploring a few different ideas, hacking on things. We we always used to hack on a variety of different projects. I mean all sorts of different things. But finally, I think the the place where we got really excited where we thought actually YC would be great was going to be um when we were thinking about the fact that this is actually pre-CHABT, but after the model GP3 da Vinci was out and I think people started talking about it, but the hype wasn't fully there, we started kind of realizing, wait, these AI models kind of sound like a human. It's not perfect and hallucinates like crazy, but it does sound like a human. And for me and Tyson, I mean, from both of our backgrounds, we kind of, you know, growing up in Michigan, Pennsylvania, it's like we literally did the job of what these agents would often have to do or what these agents could do where we just had to just, you know, talk to these customers, close customers, etc. We really had this like kind of hunch where we were like okay these things aren't yet able to speak but once they can speak the entire what we call like the physical economy the entire all these service based businesses will have an insane unlock because of the fact that now you have someone that can answer your phones that can go reach out to customers do all this thing and so I think we had a pretty early hunch that's when I think me and Tyson were kind of like let's do this and slowly when it comes to YC I mean I think without YC we would not have been successful I think it's just very clear. In fact, when we first got into YC, me and Tyson were kind of like, you know what, do we need YC? We don't really know what we're working on yet. Like, like, should we even do it? And I think we actually decided not to do it cuz we were like, you know what? Still working at a company that's not going to wrap up by then. Um, let's just, you know, figure it out ourselves. There's some VCs who are reaching out, you know, wanting to invest. We don't necessarily need YC. But that's actually when we were actually doing the actual exploration is when we realized that there's so many things about starting a company that genuinely we would not have learned. I would say the two biggest things I can think of are customer obsession, which is just being maniacally focused on your customer, and focused on momentum, which is just constantly be pushing yourself. And I think YC gets you into that environment. And so for us, frankly, there was many places where me and Tyson were thinking like, okay, you know, we have all these job offers. Do we, you know, we've tried for a bit. Do we go back and then maybe try again in a few years or do we keep executing? And the fact that we kept executing and did YC is probably the only reason that Aoka is able to be how big it is today. >> I feel like the tangibly the two things would be like obviously you're working with a partner is cool. I mean I'm working with 25 companies right now and I just always reminded of like when you're in the maze trying to like find your way to product market fit in the idea maze you're like do we turn around? Do we like explore this other part of the maze? And then you know being having someone next to you who's like oh no no keep going >> like you don't know that yet or you know or it's like oh yeah it's time to not do this anymore like that you know was that a part of like what you experienced? >> Definitely. I think there were so many instances where and I you know were roommates uh and we would get so excited. There would be so many of these kind of like man like this is it where like we're on to something huge like we we this can be huge. literally like 2 days later as we like discover more about that niche or like talk to more customers then we fade. It'd be really disheartening cuz it feels like you're pounding your head against this wall and you're working like you know we're basically working 24/7 every single weekend. I think it was really uh nice to be in that environment where there's other people doing the same thing. Every time we had the opportunity to speak with our with our partner at the time, Dalton, it was really elucidating. I think having him kind of ground us and uh it's just like every time we left uh speaking with Dalton it was like okay this is what we have to do these are the actual core tenants to focus on as said I think like speed is is everything like I think there's many areas where we could have probably built a decent business if we had stuck to some of these other verticals like restaurants that we had found some initial traction dental but it was really the relentless idea of like okay this is good, but how big can it be? Like when we switched into home services, we had a hundred restaurants that were using us. They were liking us decently. We even had some national restaurant chains. But after we saw the opportunity of home services, we just realized that even though we had 100 of these restaurant customers, that wasn't enough. Like that's that's not going to become a generational company. And so having the speed to kind of go quickly and then also be able to say no to, you know, good markets and good ideas to pursue even, you know, bigger ones. I think that really was what allowed us to succeed. Maybe one quick thing to add to that is I think the the thing that I really like to think about when it when it comes to this is about customer value. Again, I will say in the early days, you know, I mean, we worked at Retool and Nero, a lot of our friends were VCs knocking our doors. It's like whenever we'd kind of talk to a VC even casually and and we'd kind of be like, "Oh yeah, here's what we're exploring." The thing that every VC person would tell us that YC wouldn't that I think YC was correct on is that every venture capitalist is always thinking about market. >> Whereas every YC partner that we would ask advice for is always thinking of can you sell it? Will they pay for it? How much they actually like it? Because I think selling and paying is a proxy for value. And so for us actually what was interesting was that you know even in home services it's like in the early days it's not like VCs were always like super excited early days they they hated it. But but the thing that I think me and Tyson saw and that's actually canly because of a lot of learnings we got from you know places like YC is that actually the amount that these home service customers love our product it's producing 80% of revenue for their business are coming through phone calls. So the amount that our product is helpful is just so high that actually let's not look at classic things about oh what is this market? Should we go work on it? That's kind of like that's the VC's job to go do that. Our job is to go follow where there's customer love, where people are going to pay us more and that's going to be the more exciting opportunity for us. And yeah, frankly, I think we would have me and Tyson could very well have been stuck in this maze of like trying to play the game of VC of what idea to work on as opposed to just following the customers if it wasn't for place like YC. And I think one other YC principle that really stuck out in the early days was understanding the way that you can add value is really directly correlated to the customer pain. And I think in the early days, like I remember one of our earliest home service customers, Rescue Air, they had this pain that was so great. When we spoke to them, that's all they could tell us about, which is how much they hated their answering service. And yet, they still paid $3,000 a month for this answering service. It didn't integrate into their CRM. It was It had long hold times. It was inconsistent. And yet, they still paid it. And the YC principle that it always takes me back to is like if the pain is big enough, the customer will try to find a solution to it even if it's not perfect. And so that's when it was like that kind of was a bit of a light bulb moment was like, wait a minute, these guys are spending this much money and it's like the the solution is this bad. Like there's definitely something here to to kind of tease that like tug on that thread. >> Basically, all of these things like you can read about it. you can watch videos like this and you know, but when you're actually in the idea maze and you're like breaking your brain about stuff, having office hours with someone who's seen so many things basically is like a it's almost like if a GP5 it actually does have this like model router that tries to help you figure out like okay, do I have the answer or do I need to, you know, use medium or high reasoning or do I need to use Pro? If you're doing it on your own, it's like trying to use like GPT5 Pro for like every decision. >> Exactly. and you kind of like spin and overink and then it's like when you use GPT5 Pro for uh exactly what happened to you like we have a customer who's experiencing this extreme pain >> like in office hours when we hear that you know I would be like that's sick like do that like you have you now you got something all you have to do is like start pulling on this thread and you're going to have this billion dollar company which has turned out to be true at this point >> we're not quite a billion yet but we'll get there >> I mean we can see the trajectory it seems like seems Seems you're running in the stars to me. So, you figured out this product, you've got product market fit. Um, it's working. Walk us through, you did demo day, you did YC, how much did you raise like you pivoted in the badge and found this amazing thing. Walk us through like you're in the idea maze and then to here, you know, especially around the product. On the product side, basically the day one value was focusing on one problem that's like a hair on fire problem these customers have that we can provide the most amount of customer value and that was building the AI CSR. And so this is essentially someone like an AI agent that goes in answers phone calls, books customer, closes revenue, etc. And when we realized that that was actually very valuable, we kind of were was like our immediate thing was let's get this the hands of as many customers as we can and let's perfect that. And I think when we started seeing that that was going well, that's when me and Tyson kind of realized we were like, okay, wait, this can be onto something quite interesting. That's when we actually focused a bit more on hiring, got a great team and things like that too. But then the next phase of the company started occurring, which is what's happening right now. And I think we're kind of in this phase where we're essentially the product is significantly deeper than voice. And so that voice that AI CSR was the initial wedge. What we are doing now is like what we like to call the AI workforce because it's not just that CSR agent. We're doing all sorts of things. So, we're kind of doing proactive reachouts. We can reach out via text. We can do targeted marketing to different people. We can have like a coach product that goes and coaches to see how are you doing on call performance. How is your text doing and things like that? And so now it's like just building each of these agent flows. And I would say the biggest reason we're able to do that and that's what's causing a lot of these, you know, ACV expansions and things like that is actually because we also have just an incredible team. And so I will say it's like we're kind of in this like complete green area where you have this industry where there's not that many technical people. You have to create an incredible product because now you have this entire AI wave that's about to completely change their industry. And so that's where we were able to kind of have some of the best people working here. And so I think for example, I'll just highlight a few people cuz they were also YC people, but there's like Barrett who I think he was YC in 2015. Without him, the company would not be where it's at today. He's like one of our product leaders. He kind of goes in and figured out essentially how to kind of help scale some of these go from the CSR to building the rest of the workflow as well. Led some of that work. There's Drago who for that CSR coach that like the coaching product he's kind of taken a big lead on that and he was YC 2020 incredible person there. There's also Ditia who is actually the same batch as us. He was building like an API infra company and he's just been one of the most incredible engineers too. And so in fact actually we just have this incredible team out and we are building out essentially the rest of the workforce layer. And so what I think is the most exciting part about VOCA is not even like how the product looks today or how much we've grown but it's how strong of a team we have and how much there is still to grow. I mean my candid plug would also be if there's any folks we love exfounder people want to be founders. We probably have one of the most founder like early stage cultures especially in New York and so if anyone's excited I think VOCA is definitely looking. I can definitely say like working at Palanteer very early uh jump started my whole life in a lot of ways. You know, being able to work at the next uh you know future $300 billion company in Aoka that I mean that's going to be a pretty killer experience. >> And we give a lot of autonomy too. Like there's you know there's so much to do. We're the leaders in home services um but there's you know several other verticals that we're looking to expand to. So just the scope of really being able to to work uh here I think is is unparalleled >> actually. Super interesting how you take this sort of CSR function that's kind of a cost center like cost of doing business very very high turnover terrible job like nobody even really you know you know you have to do it but you don't want to and then you've sort of switched it and now it's actually like sounds like it's putting more money into customers hands >> core revenue. Yeah. >> So it's not just like cost center I have to do it. Now it's uh >> that's actually when we do sales I mean our for sure. Yeah. You'll get some cost uh reduction. We've even seen cases where a company that had 100 CSRs is now at 30. Um and and you know a lot of that is natural attrition given seasonality and a lot of is like folks get promoted. The value probably always lead with is this is going to be a core revenue driver. This will be putting multiple millions more um by you know people who spend so much on marketing by being able to capture every lead. >> You were saying you found a customer and they're starting to pull the product out of you. I feel like there's a teaching moment there where it's like some people might overthink it or maybe they not spend the right amount of time. Like it sounds like what you did was fly there and sit with the customer and like literally work out of their like office, you know? What was that like? The customer obsession is is I think a core part of uh what makes the Vocus special and a core part of the DNA that we've been able to to carry you know since since we started. A lot of the best ideas that we have come from understanding customers at a very deep level. And I think we can only get to that point by having that level of obsession where literally now even like basically all of our uh major deployments will have several team members fly to that customer for a week. What I like to call it is like all these customers, they're especially the large ones, they're successful uh for some reason and usually it's like they might have found one or two secrets that no one else in the industry has figured out. >> Walk me through like the story of it. Can you place me in like a time and a place? What did it look like in that CSR room and who did you talk to and like >> you know when you came away from that is like how did that influence your first products? The one that kind of comes to mind is probably our our first customer uh rescue air. Uh when we first walked in, they were two owners, Josh and Michael, they had known about us because one of our restaurant customers uh just like said, "Hey, you guys should talk to these guys. They're buddies of mine." I showed them the ICSW buff for me. Uh and uh basically all these guys could talk about was how bad their answering service was. So they introduced us to the operations manager, the guy by the name of Andreas. And Andreas is this like tall 6'2 Greek guy. He's like, "Hey, this is my CSR room." And he showed me folks, there's like six people. And it just turns out that the room was buzzing. But the issue was there was too many calls because it was a heat wave in Dallas in the summer. >> And so the the call room was buzzing and you know, people were trying their best to handle the calls. But it turns out a lot of the calls just weren't able to be taken. Well, what happens to all these calls? like, you know, where do they go? And they're like, well, we have this local answering service that we're using to handle all of our overflow and after hours, like weekends, nights where they don't have any of their CSRs to take care of them. And so then we kind of said, well, like, you know, does does it work well? And that's when we didn't even have to say anything. They basically continuously were like, you know, this is actually the number one thing that irritates us. We've literally switched to the fifth answering service in the same year. Five five different ones. And it's like he's like it's always the same thing. They start out strong, but then quality diminishes. And so understanding that, then we got deep into the workflow. It's like, well, wait a minute. What does this answering service actually do for you? Does actually book jobs? They're like, well, no, all it does is it waits 2 minutes on average to answer. It doesn't actually book the job. It just takes a message. And so we're like, wait. So basically, you're paying $3,000 a month for a glorified voicemail, which also, you know, sometimes even irks the customers because like the CSRs they have are, you know, not the friendliest. >> They're sitting in a 95°ree room and they're hot and >> and those answering services are answering phones for, you know, rescuer, the vet, the librarian, like it's not personalized at all. And so yeah, that that maybe that's a bit of a kind of the inner look into what that initial interaction was like. And then what was it like you know you went back made a version that uh you know and you went back and showed it to them what happened >> there was these moments where it felt incredible and I think that's it was not perfect you know in the early days AI is hallucinating there's all these sorts of issues but how does it handle this edge case how does it deal with this workflow this workflow but in the cases where it did well it was incredible and then it was up to us to go figure out how to like really fine-tune that product and then if you look at a lot of the other agent workflows we've built or things like that from there it's really just came down to being like this is customer X. Nothing in a VOCA is built until customer X or customer Y is using that and they're happy with that. Until that point, it's like there's no fe you're not feature complete until a customer is happy as one of our tenants. And I think the reason we have that is because we hear our problems from them. It's our job to add as much value as we can to customers and we hope that that'll show increases in our contract sizes and how much revenue we also get too. >> These maxims are like easy to say, very hard to do and you're doing it. Um and you know from here it's sort of resulted in this absolute like growth explosion like last year when you hit uh you know your first seven figures ARR overall and then uh now you've basically doubled to 8 figure ARR like doubling to get there in the last 90 days is very explosive growth. So how'd you do it? >> It was a combination of things. Um, but I think one of the big reasons was it kind of goes back to the old like YC axiom around like don't try to get a 100 customers that like your product, try to get three that love it. And so we went uh to the lab and and just like had three essentially early design partners that we absolutely poured our heart and soul into making something that they loved. And the interesting thing about home services that it's extremely interconnected. A lot of the early uh traction was referrals. You never think about it, but in home services there's this influencer network where folks like a Josh Campbell from Rescuer. They are like kind of super connectors. Everyone looks to them to say what's next like what is the next big technology? And so, you know, I think Josh personally connected us to uh something like 10 of our first like 30 customers. >> Then we started getting uh a lot of uh chatter about us on these Facebook groups where all these contractors are from. And then we layered in um kind of the conferences, the trade shows with virtually zero sales and marketing. We were able to get to that first like you know million, 2 million. From there on it was just continuing to to kind of scale. The last half of it has really been driven by the enterprise and and private equity adoption because these you know P is consolidating this uh industry uh a ton. We figured out like how to how to get that motion down, how to do enterprise sales. And then once we had that kind of continuous inbound from from the mid-market, then we're able to understand and really figure out how to attack the enterprise, that's when things just like continued to boom. And again, like you know, we we've been growing fast, but we really think this is just the beginning. Like this market is absolutely massive. The exciting innings are are yet to come. basically do unscalable things uh to get to the first million dollars a year in revenue and then uh the trick is scale it after that. >> Yes, exactly. I think a lot of unscalable things we did with the Facebook groups and stuff I think we would personally ask our customers that were like really happy anytime there was a AI focused thread to kind of talk about us and you know that led to a lot of things. Yeah, I think scaling. Yeah, we ended up starting to scale sales quite heavily. But the key is I think the thing that we did right is is scaling before you truly find PMF. And I think that's one of the biggest mistakes that can kill your business. We literally got to around a million, maybe over a million before uh we brought on uh kind of our our first actual sales team. And then it was like, hey, we figured out how to do it and then we scaled it. >> That's the right way to do it. Like often people try to scale their sales team having not even done the sales themselves. Like without founder le sales you can't do it. And so totally >> if you're right about going from 1% wallet spend to 15% wallet spend in this you know very very large home services market. Uh you know what does a voca look like you know next year and 5 years from now? >> It's almost like there's this concept of system of record that you know everyone talks about when it comes to CRM and things like that. There's almost like going to be this what a vocal will represent to these industries is almost a system of intelligence or system of action where your core workflows how you close your customers how you do your marketing how you do all the core operations work is going to be centered around a bokeh and it'll be the biggest platform that we think these people will use be significantly more valuable to these customers than I think even a service ten could be but I think you know service ten has its place too it's a great company but I think aoka will have a great place as well and I think it's going to be very big and I think the most exciting thing also by the way is that home services how that's going to be done will also be very similar to maybe adjacent industries or other industries too and so when we think of like a voca we're already hitting a market size that's just so massive and the fact that it's just the beginning with that market is just so exciting for us to hear where we think that if we execute flawlessly and do really well the opportunity for this business is being a unicorn is not at all the goal the goal is to see how great we can be it's like can never say anything about valuations and pricing but quite big. >> Well, that's uh all we have time for today, but we'll see you guys next time.
